Isaiah 4026 is a wonderful recommendation on how we can appreciate creation even more.
And when we lift up our eyes and see Jehovah's creation, it does build within us an appreciation
for Jehovah and it builds our faith and we draw closer to him as a result.
But today I would like to talk about lifting up our eyes.
That's what Isaiah 4026 is.
Lifting up our eyes to recognize Jehovah's sovereignty in our life each day and sometimes
it's each moment of the day.
Now when preparing this information on the subject of sovereignty I couldn't help but think
about the Caleb and Sophia video, it's entitled Make Jehovah Happy.
Perhaps you remember it depicted in the video was Caleb facing a temptation in his life
and remember what he did when he was tempted he looked up.
He looked up in full recognition of Jehovah's sovereignty and when Caleb looked up what
did he see?
Well he saw in his mind's eye, myriads of angels, sharing him on to do what is right
in Jehovah's eyes.
They were urging him to stand up for Jehovah's sovereignty, make Jehovah's heart glad.
Caleb did what was right and what was the reaction of those heavenly spirit creatures observing
him in this temptation?
Well the angels rejoiced because Caleb stood up for Jehovah's sovereignty and most importantly
he made Jehovah's heart glad so that Jehovah could give a reply to the one that taunts
him.
Now that was an animated depiction but and it's cute but the point is very clear and
that is basically this is the scenario that we face each day of our life, sometimes each
moment of our life as we serve Jehovah.
Who do we want to rule us?
Who do we want to be our sovereign?
Who are we going to make rejoice?
Whenever we watch television, when we surf the internet, when we decide what to wear, what
movie to watch, how to dress, groom ourselves, how much we're going to drink, whether we
won't drink, well will we look up, will we lift up our eyes, will we recognize Jehovah's
sovereignty in our life or will we look down and perhaps only see ourselves?
In every aspect of life we have to look up, we have to prove by our choices and our decisions
that we want Jehovah to be our ruler, we want Jehovah to be our sovereign.
Now I'd like to briefly discuss two Bible examples that illustrate the blessings of
looking up, recognizing Jehovah's sovereignty and the disastrous consequences that result
when we look down and perhaps only see ourselves.
These are familiar examples but they make our point.
The first example is that of David and his encounter with Vashiba.
Now we're familiar with that.
It's recorded in 2 Samuel 11, we might turn our Bibles there, 2 Samuel 11.
Now you might remember in verse number 1, it speaks of David's men going to war, fighting
the Ammonites but David stayed back, he stayed home.
The 1967 watchtower suggests that possibly he was home, taking it easy.
Well could this have been an indication that David was beginning to look down?
Well in verse 2 he really looks down.
It says, one evening, David got up from his bed and walked around on the rooftop of the
King's house.
From the rooftop he saw a woman bathing and the woman was very beautiful.
As David was looking down he was becoming more and more absorbed with himself and his
own desires.
David was beginning to choose another sovereign.
Well note what happens as he keeps looking down.
Verse 3 says, David sent someone to inquire about the woman.
They mentioned that this is Vashiba.
Verse 4 then says, David sent messengers to bring her so she came into him and he lay down
with her.
Well we know the rest of the story.
The adultery eventually leads to the death of Vashiba's husband, Yeraya.
So David was looking down.
David had trouble in his life or in his house for the rest of his life.
These are the disastrous consequences when we look down, when we choose another sovereign
in our life.
We'll contrast that with the example of Joseph in Genesis chapter 39.
We might look there.
When Joseph was faced with temptation to commit adultery, Joseph looked up.
He lifted up his eyes in full recognition of Jehovah's sovereignty in his life.
Genesis 39, the account it says in verse 7.
Now after these things, the wife of his master began to cast her eyes on Joseph and say,
lie down with me.
So he refused and said to his master's wife.
Now as we read Joseph's response, you can almost see in your mind Joseph lifting up his
eyes in recognition of Jehovah's sovereignty.
Verse 8 continues,
Hear my master does not know what is with me in the house.
And he has entrusted everything he has into my care.
There is no one greater in this house than I am, and he is not withheld for me anything
at all except you, because you are his wife.
So how could I commit this great badness and actually sin against potterfer?
No, that's looking down.
He was concerned about sinning against Jehovah.
What a beautiful example of looking up.
He looked up Joseph chose Jehovah as his sovereign.
So what's the lesson?
The lesson is our decisions in life and our reactions to temptations and pressures are
bigger than we are.
Well, what does that mean?
That means that there's a lot at stake.
It means that what we do, where we go, what we wear, how we speak and act, what we drink,
how much we drink, all of these things reflect not just on ourselves, but on the God that
we serve.
Even how we feel about ourselves, Satan says that we are worthless, we are unforgivable,
but when we look up and we see Jehovah's sovereignty, we begin to see ourselves as Jehovah sees
us.
We see his mercy.
We see that we have worth in his eyes.
Everything we do, everything we think is a reflection of our attitude toward Jehovah's
sovereignty.
So it's a wonderful privilege to support Jehovah's sovereignty.
There's a beautiful comment in the inside book under sovereignty that really captures
what our attitude, what we want our attitude to be.
It says, the kind of persons Jehovah desires in his universe are persons who serve him because
of love for him and for his fine qualities.
They must love Jehovah's sovereignty.
They must desire it and prefer it over any other.
They must be persons that even if it were possible for them to become independent, would
choose his sovereignty because they know that his rulership is far wiser, more righteous
and better than any other.
So yes, we feel that there is no better ruler, there's no better sovereign than Jehovah.
And even if we could become independent, we choose Jehovah as our sovereign because
we know that Jehovah's way is best.
So remember the big issue is not what we want.
It's about Jehovah's sovereignty.
It's about doing what pleases Jehovah, conforming to the way Jehovah wants us to be.
So in every aspect of our life, let us always look up in full recognition of Jehovah's
sovereignty in our life.